hey everyone welcome to a brand new
interview series called keys from
Keynotes where I aim to interview some
of the greatest keynote speakers in the
world and learn things about what makes
them great from the stage now those of
you who have been following my YouTube
channel may be familiar with me my name
is Wade Patterson and I'm passionate
about impactful communication and public
speaking it's my goal to help make you a
more confident communicator and if
you're brand new to the podcast the
audio side of this this is an interview
series I hope to keep going over the
years and interview various people from
the field who are professional speakers
to hear their advice you've heard from
YouTube enough about my perspective now
it's time to tap into the perspective of
those who are Professionals in what they
do so if you're listening to the podcast
form of this feel free to look me up on
YouTube my channel is Wade Patterson and
it's all about impactful communication
and if you're watching on YouTube please
know that there's also this audio
version the podcast version of these
interviews so you can listen to them on
the go on all of your favorite podcast
apps and in this the first episode the
first conversation we're starting off
strong an interview with Jazelle yardi
and she talks all about her experience
her story of starting her public
speaking career during the pandemic
behind a kitchen table with no agent and
how she built up her career through
effective use of video and teaching
companies and individuals and employees
and even real estate agents how they can
leverage social media and video content
in order to build their brand in a very
human way and also leverage these
platforms this was a great conversation
Gizelle got super vulnerable she talked
about the nerves she gets before she
speaks I mean we know public speaking is
a major fear for many people but is it a
major fear for professional public
speakers it clearly is as Jazelle
explained but she talks about how she
harnesses that energy and then how she
customizes all of her speeches to be fit
for the audience she's presenting to so
some speakers have one deck that they
use one slideshow and they deliver the
same presentation to every different
audience Gizelle never uses the same
speech twice she always always
customizes it and she talks about why
that's important so I hope you really
enjoy this brand new series episode one
featuring Jazelle well hey there and
welcome to a brand new interview series
which I'm calling keys from Keynotes
with the idea that I'm going to talk to
some of the world's greatest public
speakers and get their insights of how
they are confident from the stage and
hopefully it gives you a lot of great
ideas as well and we're starting off
with a great one today I am joined
episode number one by Jazelle ugard and
Jazelle built her professional speaking
career behind a kitchen table during
lockdown without an agent today Jazelle
is one of the most sought after speakers
on the circuit tackling topics such as
personal branding healthy social media
habits and the future of leadership
while ensuring each presentation is
unique and custombuilt for each
individual audience Jazelle welcome to
keys from Keynote
thank you so much for including me for
having me even hearing that intro I was
like yeah like this is what I worked so
hard for and whoa It's all happening and
the hard work is paying on so thank you
thank you so much so let's go back to
that in lockdown this is where you
started your speaking career can you
break that into more detail what did
that look like why did you want to start
a career in speaking and how did you get
started well there's a few different
questions in there so the how did I get
started my first ever paid speaking gig
I opened up for Gary vaynerchuk which
sounds pretty cool if you know who Gary
vaynerchuk is but I want to give you
like the candid raw real version which
was I got paid about $500 to do it and
in comparison I mean I think for that
one he got paid at least 100,000 he's
charging more than that now so I was a
steal and it was the kind of thing where
um it was a local event in Rochester In
Minnesota where I'm from and the
coordinators reached out to Simply
invite me to the event and I had had in
my mind in my heart in My Secret Journal
I want to work with Gary Boehner Chu and
I want to be a professional speaker and
I wrote These Dreams over and over and
all of a sudden on the phone call where
they were like yeah do you want to come
to this dinner beforehand for just
influential locals I was like yeah but
um do you have an opener and they're
like an opener I was like yeah do you
have someone to like open it up do like
do you need someone who can MC the event
or deliver the opening keyote or you
know just like hype up the crowd
beforehand and they were like no um do
would like and I'm like I'll do it I'll
do it if you want and they're like you
would you would do that and I was like
yeah of I I would love to they're like
that would be amazing like as if I was
doing them a favor
and they were like so like how much do
you charge and I was
like I didn't think I was going to get
to a yes you know like I didn't I didn't
I really didn't I knew that I wanted to
do it but I didn't think that far ahead
so I just flirted out $500 and they
agreed instantly again now in retrospect
with all of the other money that they I
mean they probably put at least half a
million dollars into this event so 500
again steal and and that was my first
ever event
and what I also think is worth
mentioning to your audience is how again
I'd never done this before and what was
so funny is here's Gary vaynerchuk who's
known for content and authenticity and
if you know him you know that like he's
as casual as it comes like where's a
beanie to the office where's a teacher
on stage you know is off the cuff and
speaks his mind and for some reason all
of a sudden I completely got stiff and I
think lost my identity where I thought
of like what do I need to do to like do
speaking like what do I what what does a
speaker do like what does a speaker
supposed to do and what what is like a
businesswoman speaker in the tech space
what does she look like you know even
though they like they hired me because
they know me and they know my
personality and I went to this other
place of thinking that I needed to like
do and supposed to all this I went to
the mall and I got a banana or a public
jumpsuit and there's nothing wrong with
in a republic other than I had never
shopped there before and I just thought
that a serious businesswoman speaker was
supposed to wear a pants suit and a high
neck and all black and she's supposed to
wear heels like baby heels and I'm if
you don't know who I am like I love
shoes I love sneakers I love a sexy
stiletto so to wear like a baby 2 in
plain Jane heel that's again just so not
like me but this is what I thought was
like a businesswoman pump and and then I
went to the Apple Store and I bought an
Apple Watch because I thought that
that's what smart techie business people
are supposed to wear um granted what's
funny is that at the time I actually had
like a beautiful Rolex watch that I wore
all the time and I didn't want people to
think that I was too uppy or you know
who bought it for me so I went and got a
a gray plain Apple watch again there's
nothing wrong with apple watches other
than I don't wear Apple watches like
these are not things that I do and I was
trying to do Speaker versus be speaker
and I was trying to button up in such a
way that I felt like I sort of lost
myself and then even when I got on stage
I felt like I was trying to emulate Gary
versus be me anybody who was watching
probably thought that I did like a
pretty good job especially considering
that it was my first time but I knew
looking back like
that's not you like that's just not it
um but kudos to you to anyone who is
putting themselves out there on stage or
doing workshops or creating content
because sometimes you have to do that
before you learn who you've been all
along and who you need to be like at
least I put myself out there to then
figure it out at least I did the cringe
keynote and like the Banana Republic
jumpsuit and and had that opportunity
and to be with Gary and so in that
moment a fire was lit but I didn't
totally know how to go about doing that
and I thought am I supposed to leave my
job and pursue this fully and I didn't
instead I actually ended up moving out
to another job that was cushy and
wonderful and awesome but then when I
finally knew like okay it's time to
really focus on speaking I went to this
conference in February of 2020 and was
like it's my time this is it like this
Jazelle the C's are parting the Tik toks
are talking like this this is the like
this is what we've been waiting for um
and then March of 2020
happened and all of a sudden like our
Live Events even going to happen anymore
like are we ever going to go out into
the world anymore like what what what
what are we going to do and so that's
how you mentioned my career accidentally
started at my kitchen table and it
really did because no we didn't have
Live Events anymore but as fate would
have it it really ended up being my time
and learning how to capture attention in
say a zoom room without a professional
camera without lighting without a team
learning how to create short form
vertical videos on my phone getting a
point across in 60 seconds or less which
I know I dragged on that story but we're
in podcast long form friends maybe we'll
chop it up for the shorter version and
that's part of you know the keynote the
keynote 60 Minutes versus the 60c short
form vertical video but it taught me how
to capture attention and hold attention
it taught me how to be more
self-sufficient and Scrappy and it
taught me how to find my real authentic
voice in a way that I couldn't wearing
that Banana Republic jumpsuit and in
heels so if nothing else I hope that
preliminary starter story inspired you
because even if you don't have the
invitation or the opportunity to get on
a stage right now even though Live
Events are back you don't have to wait
for someone to physically give you a
microphone anymore you have a microphone
in your hand it's called your phone you
carry it around and all the time and
there's so much power in that where for
even to this day so for the first two
years plus of my career all of my
opportunities have come either because
somebody saw me on stage they heard me
in an interview like a podcast or
something of this nature or they saw one
of my videos I didn't and still don't
have a real we're finally getting to the
point to where we have the time to work
on that now but it's simply that people
felt like okay I've heard you speak in a
live unedited unfiltered setting I'm
confident that you can bring that same
energy and to the stage and and that's
what's allowed for this ball to to roll
into what is now my career and the
dreams are coming true and I'm so
grateful it's such a cool story and I
want to take a step back even further of
like where did that stem from you you
talked about you know you had kind of
like visualized this you wanted to be a
speaker you manifested this happening
you were ambitious to reach out to Gary
Vee's team but like was this something
from like a young age you were really
focused or like where did you tap into
that I want to be a
speaker well I feel like to some extent
I've always been some kind of a
performer I grew up dancing my whole
life I did theater in high school I
could not sing a note for my life but I
I loved being on stage I loved being in
front of an audience especially with
groups of people and I also did pageants
in high school which was not something
that I had planned on doing but in high
school I had developed the dream of I
want to be a TV host I want to be a
presenter I want to be a journalist or
entertainment or red carpets I didn't
totally know how it was going to flush
out but ultimately um it stemmed from me
growing up in Minnesota being a
Mexican-American and I had never really
been around anybody who looked like me
and the only time I ever saw people who
looked like me were on occasion on
TV and and I really wanted to be what I
didn't have when I was younger I wanted
to be that example and I noticed that
there were a lot of people who were
holding microphones on TV and their
history was that they had done pageants
or they did College news and so even
though pageants weren't really quote
unquote my thing what I didn't realize
it did was it um I had to do interview
practice whether it was for the onstage
interview or the the private interview
that you do with the judges before you
get on stage and it was some of the best
training for college communication jobs
even public speaking where there's the
Q&A portion or podcasts where you know
they're asking you to think on your toes
and again in those moments and
especially being so young I feel like I
initially wanted to tell them what I
thought they wanted to hear I didn't
really know who I was and yet but it was
practice that I didn't even realize that
I was getting in the form of
communication like you're asking me to
think all the way back I even remember
when I was little and my parents would
take us out to eat or it was definitely
a lot of drive-thru we had a lot of kids
in our family so my mom had this giant
suburban and instead of her ordering for
the car she would pull up like she would
order her order and then she would pull
up and I would roll my window down in
the back and I would yell out my order
to the person or I would be the one who
would order at the restaurant she always
was just finding ways to use our voices
and I don't think I realized what a
superpower that was or what uh an
opportunity I had to be able to share
that skill with other people until much
later when there were so many moments
throughout my career where I felt like I
didn't have a voice or like someone was
trying to silence me or like my voice
didn't really matter and um and so we
could I mean we could get as deep as
woooo as you want but that's that's
really where I I felt like I wanted to
be a voice that I didn't have I wanted
to be a face that I didn't have and
there were a lot of moments throughout
my journey um in high school in college
in my career where I felt like I
couldn't go on or I felt like I was all
alone or like I didn't have anyone and
so there was always this fire in my
heart of if I ever get the chance I want
to be able to be that for someone else
and um I turned into TV hosting it
turned into radio hosting and I remember
one time one of my um my co-host asked
the question to the group he said if you
guys could be anything like even the
weirdest job like the example that he
gave was he would be a professional
buffalo wing taste tester right like if
you could literally be anything like
what would it be and I was thinking
about like what do I love doing it's
like you know what I think I would be a
professional pep talker like I think I
would be like I am totally the the one
who can like hype you up and make you
feel good and like anything is possible
and like it's going to be okay both
because of either my personal
experiences or just my ability to be
obnoxiously optimistic in any situation
and to like talk my way out of or into
anything and um and I didn't even really
put two and two together that actually
wait a minute it's been this like thread
that has sort of followed me I just
didn't fully believe into my story until
more recently um and and that's I think
that's kind of where it all where it all
comes from so then getting back up to
kind of where you left off initially on
the story so you talked about you know
you're ready to go it's covid March 2020
and then now what but yet you have the
persistence to keep going and find a way
and you recently posted on Instagram
talking about the importance of aspiring
speakers getting video out and you
touched on it earlier in this
conversation so what did that look like
for you specifically like were you
starting to get events booked where you
were doing them over Zoom or was it just
a matter of like you were just getting a
lot more video content out showing what
you could do what did that all look
like well I absolutely believe if if you
feel like you have something that you
want to share that could be helpful or a
story on your heart or even if you've
ever had that thought of I wish more
people knew about fill in the blank that
absolutely you should share it like you
have a service to the world to make it
better or your industry or your legacy
or your family to have an impact and yes
absolutely you could tell one person and
that's great but how wonderful if you
had some advice where maybe 10 people
see it maybe a 100 people hear it or you
never know who could potentially be
watching and so I had started sharing on
social media honestly almost 15 years
ago at this point I was putting videos
up on YouTube honestly at that point
thinking that no one would see them I
wanted to be a TV host and nobody wanted
to hire me so I would make videos at
home in my you know in my room learning
how to edit learning how to use
microphones learning how to light having
no intention other than I wanted to get
really really comfortable and it was too
expensive for me to physically send out
my demo reel and resume and folder
because that's how we used to do it 15
years ago if you wanted someone to see
you had to get into that audition room
and maybe they would give you a chance
and all of a sudden I was like wait I
could film a video and customize it and
I could copy and paste it and send it to
the casting director or send it not even
to the casting director I could send it
straight to the to the head of
production or to the news director or to
the head of the company like what like
that that's why it was like a totally it
was like I was going straight to the
front of the line in a way that a lot of
people just couldn't grasp that and so
that's where my practice with video came
from is because initially I was wanting
my intention was I want to be on TV so I
feel like first and foremost anytime
that I've ever posted content or even
anytime that I've ever posted a video
it's been with an intention so that's
something that I want you to think about
as you're listening to this podcast or
as you're posting content or as you're
posting social media or even as you're
scrolling through social media what's my
intention like why am I doing this who
am I hoping will see this for me it was
you know I'm hoping that a news director
will see this and cast me as a host or
now as a speaker I'm hoping an event
planner will see this or another speaker
will see this or a meeting planner will
see this and they'll go oh wait we need
a speaker let's go with
Jazelle and so I was posting these
videos with the intention of I want to
get more comfortable finding my voice I
want to be able to give people value in
that at the time that in March of 2020
what I was predominantly talking about
online was using video to connect with
people where let's just go back to that
traumatic time in our lives when we had
no idea what in the world was going to
happen and next and we didn't know what
was going to happen to our jobs or to
the businesses that we love or even at
the grocery store and you know God
forbid we run out of toilet paper and so
at that time I was working at an
advertising agency and we had so many
businesses who their budgets had been
cut or became non-existent and so I was
wanting to show them and also all of the
people who were not our clients but who
desperately needed to connect with their
customers hey let me show you what you
can do using tools you already have
without having to leave your house or
risk your health or hire a team let me
show you how some of these social media
platforms work and the potential that is
here for you to connect on a deeper
level and for people to still know who
you are and in a really targeted way
that was initially my intention but what
I realized and again like some of I
think some of our superpowers like even
you as a speaker whether it's your voice
or your personality or you're trying to
figure out what keynote do I want to
share What story do I want to share what
topic do I want to talk about like even
as you are and I are going through these
questions I have to remind myself there
are some things that for me I have I
already either put my thousand hours
into or I don't even realize or my
Powers because they're so obvious and I
have to like go in there and really
break it down and realize like oh wait
what's been inside of me here all along
like this is what it was so I I didn't
realize that talking to people about how
they could use video and social media
and their face and their voice I didn't
realize like
how just not normal that was for so many
people because I had been doing it at
that point for over 10 years and had
found my voice after 10 years where that
little girl in her room 10 15 years ago
was so vanilla and so green and had no
personality and was so awkward and
trying to be something that she wasn't
same thing how you know the girl in The
Banana Republic jumpsuit came all came
back all again in in our impostor
syndrome that we face when we're hitting
to that next level and so um so I was
creating videos where I was simply
giving my perspective giving my opinion
on something that I was so excited about
and passionate about and knew a little
something about um I didn't know
everything about it but I knew a little
bit more than the average person because
you know March 2020 still felt pretty
early um short form vertical video
hadn't hit Instagram yet or YouTube yet
or LinkedIn or Facebook as we know it
and today and so I was I was simply
talking about something that I already
knew about and was excited about and
creating a community over there and long
story longer from from those types of
videos I got some really influential
followers because what we're
experiencing on every single platform
now every platform on social media if
your profile is public it is guaranteed
that your content will be seen by people
who don't follow you that's pretty
awesome like that's pretty cool because
previously you had to pay for that only
your followers would see your content
and in the order that it was posted now
you could post something to LinkedIn
today maybe I'll see it in a week maybe
I'll see it in two weeks or maybe I'll
see it because one of our mutual friends
commented on it and all of a sudden it
repopulated to my feed and so what ended
up happening was I had Meeting Planners
and event planners and Brands and even
people from Tik Tock who saw my content
and they said oh my gosh we need someone
like you because you're someone who you
understand Tik Tok you're not dancing
you're not lip syncing which that was so
the scenario that so many people had in
their head of that's all that that is um
and and so I was someone who was brought
in even to Tik Tok to explain some of
the ways that businesses and even
creators could optimize their
relationships and their presence using
that
platform and it's just little by little
like every single time that you have an
opportunity it will give you a lesson or
it will give you an introduction or
potentially a testimonial or all of the
above where one little nugget leads to
the next and social media can also be
something that keeps you top of mind
with those people whether or not that
they are ready for you because there
were a few people who followed me and I
got really excited because they were
maybe verified people or entrepreneurs
who I looked up to or Business Leaders
who I looked up to and we would have
maybe a couple of exchanges in the DMS
or maybe not but I would continue to
make content and continue to do what I
did and maybe they weren't thinking of
me then but a year later wait oh my gosh
I don't know why I didn't think of you
Jazelle but we have this virtual event
coming up will you please come and and
it's all about just natural organic
building of relationships where yes it
started out as will you come on our Zoom
call and maybe it was a group call or a
coaching call or will you come on this
podcast or will you please uh do a
webinar for our virtual event and then
all of a sudden as real life events
started coming back you were so great at
our virtual event will you come and do
it in person or oh my gosh I saw you on
that Zoom call I was in the audience can
you please come and do that in person or
oh my gosh I saw that training that you
did for a Tik Tok will you come and do
that with my team and it has been this
contagiously referral based business
that has been optimized by that power of
video and that power of connection where
hopefully what you see online matches if
not exceeds um or I'm sorry matches what
you're gonna see offline if not what
happens offline will exceed even what
you experience online another one of the
cool things that you shared about
recently was the fact that you customize
your presentation there's no duplicate
of okay I saw Jazelle at this event
therefore it's going to be a cookie
cutter version at this other event that
she's speaking
at first off why why do you think that's
important to make these unique
presentations and then what does that
process look like to ensure that you're
customizing to the Right audience
absolutely so I didn't realize this but
um you know I really went about my
speaking career the very non-traditional
route there are a lot of speakers who
are wonderful and they go very
traditional where they build up their
marketing and their real and their
website and they go through bureaus or
agents or managers and there's nothing
wrong with that I was simply reacting to
the opportunities that I was getting and
doing the best that I could and mind you
I had 10 previous years of my own
representation as a TV host and as a
radio host and as somebody who worked
with Brands um you know I had all of
that behind me whereas not not everybody
has that type of experience and so your
your goals or your starting off points
might be a little different um and or
some some bad advice that I think is
good advice that I give is no no no try
doing it all yourself first so then that
way you can see what actually goes into
it and you can follow on your face and
then from there figure out who's
actually worthy of your time and
attention and commission um but again
there's there's no single way to to do
it and um so that being said um as I was
you know figuring it all out um I didn't
realize that that a lot of speakers give
the exact same presentation over and
over and over again and there's honestly
nothing wrong with that that actually
sounds great that sounds really you know
wonderful and I don't think easy is the
right word because if you make it look
easy it's because you put a lot of hard
work into it but there are a lot of
people who give the exact same talk and
there are a lot of event planners who
they want to buy your talk you know if
if you're gonna hire Taylor Swift to
well actually Taylor would probably be
an exception to this but if you're gonna
hire like an artist who you know and
love like you want them to play the hits
you don't want to hear songs that you've
never heard before or you know even with
comedians they do a lot of the they they
have a set they have a a set thing and
so for me I definitely have a few
stories that I absolutely pull out of my
pocket or that I have repeated but I was
for even still customizing a lot of
different presentations the beginning
the middle the end the content the type
of content the exercises the workshops
because I as a coach things are a little
different a lot of speakers don't have
the same practice that I do where I I
have groups that I coach every week I
get to trial new material all the time
so where another speaker might say oh
yeah I'm going to try some new material
on stage an event planner would be like
are you kidding me like no we're not
going to try something new like I try
out new content and I feed it to my
audience first my followers first my
clients first my group coaching clients
first and I'm constantly practicing and
oiling up my machine and it's what
allows for me to do some of that
improvisation um and to divert from the
slides and know that like I'm going to
read your audience and Dell them and to
give them what they need not everybody
can do that not everybody wants to do
that and that's more than and perfectly
okay but at the very least even if you
are delivering the exact same keynote
presentation every single time I beg of
you to do research on your audience to
do research on the brand that you're
speaking to and try to find ways that
you you can acknowledge them in your
presentation even if for example you are
giving a whole presentation about sales
cool give us examples of you know or
even say the word Selling
Houses or real estate agents or some way
that you're you're letting the audience
know I know who you are I see you and
I've done my research at the very like
minimal least because for example I saw
um a speaker who came to a real estate
conference that I went to earlier this
year and he is opening up and telling
his story and one of the examples that
he used was um seeing a a CEO walking
around your office or something to that
nature but I'm thinking like friend
you're in a room full of real estate
agents like CEO walking around your
office what are you talking about like
most most of these agents aren't even
going to a physical office like in fact
a lot of them are under the play of if
you're in the office you're not actually
doing your job so what are you talking
about like CEO walking around your
office that doesn't even make sense like
like let's let's give them a little bit
of something like even if you're talking
about love life and happiness and and
your bucket list like if there's
anything that you can do um The Next
Step Up might be for one of your
examples maybe using real people in the
office audience or acknowledging your
event planner or acknowledging just the
the leader of your organization so that
again that way people feel like okay
this person gets us and that was one of
the the best compliments that I got
recently was I went um to Austin um and
it was an annual conference and
afterwards the president who I'd never
met before she came up to me and she was
like oh my gosh everybody was talking
about you I had to double check and make
sure that you didn't work for our
organization because I thought you were
one of us like I fully thought that like
that you were you were one of us like
you clearly did your homework and I felt
like you were talking to me and that's
simply the difference between good and
great or maybe even that's the
difference between I think like good and
like really really great which again
those are those are some of the things
that I don't know how not to do that I
didn't realized that it was so
significant where I remember I was
getting off of a call with a colleague
and and I you know said you know what's
a mistake that you've made lately and he
said oh I didn't customize and I'm like
what what do you mean like what what
he's like yeah I was giving it and he
and he told me the story and I'm like I
don't I'm so confused what do you mean
you didn't customize like the best way
that I can put it is that is the
difference between you talking to an
audience versus Talking at an audience
and there are a lot of people who call
themselves speakers who talk at an
audience or simply do a performance
versus talking to a group of people and
and that's what can set you apart so I
recommend you know do your research know
who you're talking to ask the event
planner the meeting planner even if for
example like even you and I how you came
on a call that I had with Remax Canada
and that was like one of three different
calls that I took with different people
throughout the organization and was
asking even people in the community or
my driver going to the hotel hey you
know what's what's Canada's perception
of estate you know what what what's
what's the perception like what do
people actually think what are the
headlines saying how is it different
from what I experienced in the US or I
did um a keynote in Spain where in the
US the way that we do grading is with
letters like in school like you know in
in middle school and and in high school
and even in college or university and we
go AB bcde e f and I I um was talking I
was using that as a reference and I was
like by the way like do you guys would
you know what I would mean if I said I
got a be in Spanish because I was giving
a keynote in Spanish and he was like oh
yeah we don't do we don't do letters
here like we do numbers wow and so even
just knowing little nuances like that of
like oh no way and so I was able to in
my keynote say you know I got a B in
Spanish but say which is the equivalent
of like a five in your terms and those
are little things where it just allows
for them to feel like okay even if isn't
from here she's taken some time to to
get to know us and and it just makes all
of the difference in the world read the
news read the headlines take some
meetings um or at the very least just
try to just try to read the room try to
read the room well it's so interesting
and I think that's that's such good
advice because you know you kind of laid
out the bare minimum there you know use
the terminology in the jargon and that
that is typical for the industry and
you're right because sometimes an
audience will hear a term and for
example sticking on real estate escrow
isn't a thing in Canada we hear that
term instantly there might be this guard
it could be an amazing speech but if
that one term could turn the audience
off and then I really like your idea
there about you know scheduling some
calls to do this research especially
with the people who are leaders within
the organization but to break this down
even further what does it look like for
the way you're building because you do
have some slides in your presentation do
you have just kind of a set deck or a
few set PowerPoint decks and then you
customize from there or like when you're
putting together these custom
presentations are you starting from
scratch each time what does that look
like really good question I am adding a
little bit more structure into my
repertoire but truth be told slides are
not my love language and I was very very
resistant and so for me it used to
actually be that my flip chart was my
best friend on that stage I wouldn't
even use any slides I would just go
straight to flip chart but um but what I
noticed was I was telling a story last
summer about my dad and I feel like
simply talking about my dad can
absolutely move the room you know when
it comes to parents when it comes to
family um it can move the room but it
just so happened that as I Was preparing
for it and even telling my dad about it
I had like a very distinct picture in my
head and I decided on that particular
instance to share a slide that had a
picture of me and my dad and what a
difference it made to elevate an already
great story and so it it was then that I
had a moment where it was a flicker of
okay you know what like maybe there are
some different ways that that for me and
for my style that I can use this to
actually add to my conversation versus
again going back to what I've done in
the past where I've tried to do Speaker
versus be speaker like I was doing it
for the wrong reasons because that's
happened a lot where I will see um a
friend of mine her name is Jara she's a
great follow jera bean and um and she's
a former graphic designer everything
that she does is beautiful because for
her creative is her love language
and she will put together the most
gorgeous organized colorful vibrant
slide deck and I would watch her giving
a presentation and just look at her
slide deck and feel so inadequate or
very recently I saw one where this
speaker was talking about Ai and he had
this whole deck that was created from
Graphics that he put in had AI created
and I remember thinking like oh God
those slides are so cool like why can't
I do that and um and so for me it even
is like I'm I'm in in the middle of that
even figuring out like what is my slide
balance like what where where could I
use slides in a way that can actually
take me a step further where there were
totally moments even recently with the
one that I did in Remax where I was
using some new slides and I was like
yeah like that's that's fine but it like
that was too much like that was
unnecessary where it's like what what
acts as a visual aid to different types
of learning styles versus what do you
get lost in or ends up taking away some
of for me for me personally my
personality
and so um at this point I now do have um
I make all of my slides inside of canva
For Better or For Worse I don't I don't
I'm not a again slides aren't my love
language so I can't say I recommend it
you should totally do it it's simply
what's allowed for me a a nonvisual
graphic creative person to make
something that looks at least kind of
decent and um and so I have about maybe
10ish slides where I've noticed like
okay you know what this thought's come
up a few times or you know what this
story has come up a few times and I will
weave in and out of some of those
moments um that I can then copy and
paste and Pull and use to then be able
to put together a custom presentation or
same thing with I have a whole U I have
a few different notes in my notes app
where I have a whole one just called
stories and for me it's stories that I
pull from it's personal stories personal
examples client stories just to keep
fresh and top of mind um because
sometimes you know our brain forgets
especially we gets older especially as
we get tired of go on the road and I
just I I keep that list of stories
either as they newly happen or as I
remember them or as I test them on that
on the stage because sometimes the story
Falls flat sometimes the story you know
you could do better or you remember
something else and so those are just
little ways that help with the way that
my brain works of making something that
has some structure even though it isn't
completely scheduled and planned you get
nervous before you present
always always I um I usually have a time
where I want to wake up and I tell
myself I'm going to wake up and I kid
you not wait I usually end up spending
about an hour completely Frozen in bed
like cannot move and completely paraly
ized um want to get up but can't like
want to be able to disappear into the
bed and like just stay there and forever
um I have pacing moments I question
everything I'm about to say I question
if I deserve to even be there at all I
feel like I'm going to pee but I don't
know if I actually have to pee or if
it's just nerves and then um usually
right before I go on stage I get
extremely calm and I just breathe it in
and I'm able to trans form the
excitement into or transform the nerves
and the impostor syndrome into
excitement and shift that mindset of I
deserve to be here I'm so excited to be
here it's an honor to be here um but I
feel like if you if if the nerves didn't
happen like to me the nerves means I
care to me the nerves means I want to do
a really good job to me the nerves means
because I've also noticed that I get
more nervous when I know people in the
audience and it used to be that that
only meant if it was like a client or a
family member but now because of the
relationship that I tend to build with
my client I sometimes do feel like oh I
have I have quote unquote fans in the
audience or I have Partners in the
audience or I have you know a family of
new friends in the audience and so it it
I almost feel as if um You' think that
the nerves have started to go away I
feel like the nerves are actually
getting stronger the difference is that
um the flip is is also stronger where
it's I know I can do this I know I'm
capable I know I'm going to make an
impact I know that somebody is going to
take something away from this and even
if it's just one person who leaves here
feeling captivated or inspired or better
than when they walked in then that is a
win for me and I always even in those
moments like I did my last keynote of
the year last week and I walked off that
stage being like Oh my God I crushed
like all of the explosives like all of
the Just I I crushed that and then like
an hour later I started having the
thoughts come in of like uh you know
what next time I want to do it this way
you know what I kind of wish I would
have done it this way and I can think of
40 different things that I would have
done differently and it's not a but it's
an and it's you know what Jazelle you
did crush and also next time let's let's
play with this one or let's go in that
direction or let's try to do it this way
and and that is I believe a beautiful
place to be where it's not living in the
past of I would have should have done
that but it's no no let's live in a
place of abundance you're going to get
this chance again how are we going to do
it differently and or better and or
improve or or switch it up or change it
up and um and I believe that those
nerves are absolutely healthy because it
means that you care you haven't done
that before you care about somebody in
there like you you just know that you're
about to do something that's really
really awesome and that's it's a great
place to be I love that perspective and
I think it's probably refreshing for
people to hear because this is the thing
is that most people maybe not every
single person but most people do get
those nerves before taking the stage you
know it's just it's why they say you
know some people have a bigger fear of
public speaking than dying which is
insane but this is a common fear that we
that we have and so to hear that someone
at your
caliber is experiencing that as well to
that level but is able to channel that
energy in a positive way and I love the
Outlook at the end of you know it's okay
you know like this sure this could have
been improved but I still did an awesome
job my next question is with regard to
kind of the preparation process so are
you let's say you have a a keynote gig
that is scheduled are you rehearsing
that whole thing days before are you are
there enough of these stories that
you've told before like what does your
practice routine look like before a
speaking
opportunity yeah and and I even want to
add um even the element of importance
and like how I get to that calm place
and even the preparation part always
putting the audience first because even
those moments where I might be nervous
of um you know oh my gosh so and so is
in the audience or this person it's it's
thinking about okay is that person the
exception or the rule because yes for
example the event planner hired you but
who's your audience you know who what
what what level are they at like maybe
the people in the front row are super
Advanced but what's the general audience
like what level are they at and when you
get into your head of oh my gosh I don't
know if I deserve to be here what helps
me so much even sometimes in that moment
when I hit that stage is taking a breath
and reminding myself it's not about you
it's about who you're serving and your
people and so part of even my process of
practice is constantly reminding myself
of that of like who am I trying to reach
because even last week I had a you know
again the whole front row was VIPs and
some of these were some of the most
influential people in the industry some
of them were you know they're from
reality shows and the Instagram and the
Tik toks whatever and I had to remind
myself like yes they are awesome and yes
you are fangirling but they are not like
they're the exception they're not the
rule like we're serving everybody else
who's in the back row who's hiding in
the back who's still too scared to show
up who's still so again part of that is
even training my brain as I'm getting
nervous days ahead so that that way when
I'm on stage if ever there's a moment
where I lose my train of thought or I
get that that butterfly it's breathing
it just reminding myself of that
groundedness as far as practicing and
rehearsing I am constantly practicing
stories um I'm constantly practicing
little lessons and exercises and in
different ways and sometimes it's
honestly as simple as and this is
something anyone can do no matter what
level you're at sometimes it is
practicing a story at the dinner table
or with my friends saying oh my God
you're not going to believe what
happened to me on the airplane yesterday
and and telling a story because that's
how that's how your story should feel on
that stage you should be using your
normal voice sometimes what happens is
um you know there are some people who
they write their Keynotes and that's
fine great if you want to write out your
whole keynote like an essay or get help
from chat gbt that's like great you you
need to do whatever your brain needs to
do again that's not how my brain works
but if that's how yours does you do
whatever you need to do but written word
is very different from spoken word so my
suggestion would be use a tool like
otter.ai for example where it
transcribes your words and then can
format it into a document so then that
way you can see how actually talk and so
um I will practice stories out on
friends I will practice stories out on
Instagram stories where it disappears
after 24 hours and I I can you know take
longer than a minute for my reels um I
will also sometimes practice my stories
in my hotel room or in my head or in my
shower um and the reason for that so
timing is always really important and um
and so I have a couple of stories where
I might have a 15minute version or a
10-minute version or a five minute
version or it's one of those stories
where I go okay if I need to fill time
this is a great filler or okay if I need
to cut that one out I can cut it shorter
so just for fun even on like a Wednesday
night if I'm all alone I will pull out
my phone and turn on the timer and
practice a story just to see how long it
takes me um or if it feels long and then
when it comes to um my Keynote
every now and then I will practice
something from beginning to end because
I from experience even in um dance I
grew up dancing and and one of the
things that we would sometimes do in
dance is we would have this process
called marking it what marking it means
if you're not familiar is when for
example instead of doing like a triple
turn I would just close my hands and
imagine myself twirling three times but
if you never do the turn full out what
happened one time when I was on the
football field in front of thousands of
people I got so used to marking it where
I would just stand with my leg up and
count to three with my hands that all of
a sudden I noticed all the girls were
turning and facing me and I was the only
one facing them doing the marked version
right versus doing it full out and so
I've noticed that a couple times where
sometimes when I'm going through a
keynote and what I've made a mistake for
in the past is I'll only practice what I
think are the quote unquote hard moments
or the the really big stories not even
realizing wait a minute how am I GNA
transition or like wait I haven't I
thought I knew this lesson like the back
of my hand but I'm actually a little
rusty and um and so like granted not
every keynote is the same there are
absolutely some stories that I tell more
than others that are pretty sharp and
that I know you know like the back of my
hand and ultimately like you shouldn't
talk about anything that you don't
really know and well um and that's
another piece of advice that I would
give to you that I learned by accident
which was I you know my first my first
Keynotes as I mentioned like they were
in my kitchen and I wasn't screen
sharing a PowerPoint presentation and
then once I was given opportunities
there were so many instances where I
wasn't in a room that had high
production value or lights or screens
and LEDs like I I was in you know a room
that could maybe fit 30 people with like
bad lighting and no screens and so I
would challenge you like could you do
your presentation unplugged could you do
could you do your presentation without
slides like you hope that never happens
to you but like could you do it there
are a lot of speakers that that rely on
confidence monitors which I didn't even
know what a confidence monitor was until
just this year which is when you can put
notes on the slides in front of you on a
very highly produced stage and there are
a lot of people that like fully and
heavily rely on those things and so um I
don't even realize that I'm doing it
subconsciously but I am I'm practicing
constantly even when I'm not actually
practicing and I do attempt to do at
least half if not full runthrough
beforehand but there have absolutely
been moments where with my style
personally I've been you know um I've
improvised or maybe I go a little rogue
or oh hi my dog just decided to come and
visit welcome welcome welcome back to
the channel Penelope crw everyone so
cute and um and so absolutely there have
been moments where I've started with a
different story or I felt moved like I
feel like someone needs to hear this
story um or we go in a different
direction um and that's you know that's
just something for me I think coming
from that place of live television and
live internet and live podcast or live
Zoom where I I I know that if I'm going
to do that that I know how to take the
audience with me versus make it about me
you have another rule that you don't
drink 72 hours before presenting which I
mean yeah it sounds like a great rule
but I think what people need to remember
sometimes is that often you know
speaking opportunities happen at these
conferences there may be like networking
aspects sometimes that are involved so
you know it does take some discipline to
stick by that why is that important to
you you know I I heard a podcast a few
years ago between Holly Whitaker and
Melissa Urban and Holly Whitaker is uh
the founder of uh a brand called Tempest
she's also the author of a book called
quit like a woman and she posted the
question of what is keeping you from
achieving your dreams dot dot dot wait
for it as quickly as you would like like
like what's keeping you from achieving
your dreams not period but as quickly as
you would like and it really hit me in a
way where I thought you know what's
what's slowing me down like what is
really slowing me down and I noticed
that for example if I go out drinking on
a Friday or a Saturday or both
especially which I'm again I'm not a big
drinker I'm not a daily drinker but I
would notice that like even if I went on
a Friday okay Saturday I'm hung over all
day Sunday I'm still a little groggy um
and Monday even there's like a little a
little fog sometimes and when I really
think about okay if I'm losing at least
a Saturday every single month like a
full Saturday or a full Saturday and a
Sunday like that's a full week out of
every month that's a full week that I'm
losing and if I'm getting frustrated at
my progress a really easy adjustment
that I can make is to quit drinking and
when I really think about what does it
take for me to be be on my aame it's
that I need my brain to be clear and I
also recognized like okay so alcohol is
one sleep is another I noticed how even
after a glass of wine I I got an aura
ring which is a wearable piece of
technology that can track how you sleep
I noticed how even after just one glass
of wine I would sleep horribly like just
horribly and so that's where oh hi Mom
my mom's F home for holidays got a
couple candos I love well a couple
cameos you know this is real we're
authentic and um and so that was
something for me that really had me
reexamining my relationship with alcohol
where again like I didn't see myself as
being an alcoholic or having a problem
but I felt like it was slowing me down
and at times I felt like I was totally
misusing it and it really forced me to
redevelop my relationship with it
completely so I gave it up entirely when
I first started my business and without
realizing it that took it to another
level where I had to go through wedding
season completely sober like you want to
learn something about yourself go
through a whole wedding season sober and
I all of a sudden realized like where I
was maybe numbing myself or masking
insecurity I didn't think that I was
someone who had social anxiety and all
of a sudden I realized oh my God I have
social anxiety like I'm dreading going
to this thing or I don't know how to
leave a conversation or I'm fully
reliant on like going back to the bar
and I feel like that's networking for a
lot of people we don't even realize it
like the first thing We crave is I want
to go to the bar I want a wine I want a
beer I want to you know so so many of
those pieces and um and what has been
really awesome for me is even in those
networking situations how wonderful it
is when I'm able to be fully present in
a conversation how wonderful it is when
I can totally leave when the party is
getting fun and be like you know what
I'm GNA go like cool um it's also been a
lot of conversation started of like oh
wait you're not drinking tell me more
like there are a lot of people who are
very very curious and I was recently at
a real estate conference where one of
the um one of the MC's actually asked me
a very similar question um or before
even she did she asked the audience she
said who of you would you not drink if
you weren't in real estate and there
were so many hands that went up wow and
it's kind it makes you wonder like wait
really like it's that it's that much
like it's really that much whether it's
that you're that stressed or you're that
anxious or you don't like talking to
people and and that's where I go like
listen there's nothing wrong with
alcohol unless it doesn't feel right and
for you or it's slowing you down from
doing what you actually want to do and
um and so that for me I feel like you
know um I even noticed over the summer
where I have that rule of well if I
don't have to be on my a game and send
two hours like okay cool I'll drink and
I usually take July off so I found
myself starting to drink for the summer
like oh yeah let's go on a patio let's
you know s Funday let's brunch and I all
of a sudden realized after not having
been drinking for the six month Sprint
that I was on like I was like wow I
really don't like how I feel like I
don't like this feeling I don't like the
anxiety that's coming I don't like the
insecurities that are coming up um and
so you know if you're listening to this
right now and you're any of these bulbs
are going off like consider leaning into
it again at your own pace on your own
Journey um what I really love about that
Tempest brand is they don't have like a
you know an All or Nothing idea that a
lot of people do around sobriety or
people who are in recovery which again
if that's your journey go for it but um
it they really value you taking your own
journey and and really just again
exploring and seeing like all right what
what's what's happening in that brain
that's making you feel like this is what
you're again supposed to do versus like
what are you really really wanting to do
and and how can you get there faster
well and I think where that's super
relevant as well is that you know we've
mostly been talking about those people
who are aspiring speakers on a high
level like want to be Keynotes that type
of thing but if we take it to a more
likelihood
for that many people might experience is
that at some point in their lives they
might have the chance to give a speech
or something at like a wedding or that
take type of circumstance and I think
sometimes there's this belief that like
oh I can have a few drinks just wing it
and the point you brought up earlier
about like even after a glass of wine
like it impacts your ability to think
clearly so I think yeah that that hits
on a lot of really good points there one
thing I'm I'm curious about jezelle is
um you know you've spoke to quite a few
different audiences have you had an
instance where you're presenting and
you're like this is this is not
hitting it's not resonating with this
audience and then how did you deal with
that situation in the
moment um absolutely I've had those
moments and and interestingly enough I
think more than half of the time it's in
my
head um where I I'm like oh this feels
weird this isn't great um one of the
pieces of empathy that you will learn
being a speaker like once you finally
put yourself in that Arena you recognize
how valuable your energy as someone in
the audience is and so now I'm someone
who you know if the speaker asks me to
participate as long as it isn't annoying
and self-serving I will totally
participate like I will throw my hands
I'll screen I'll you know I'll I'll clap
I'll hug the person next to me um I'll
dance when the music is there because I
know how valuable that energy is and to
have to be the one who is like the only
ounce of energy it is there's nothing
more terrifying and exhausting and I can
do it at this point and I can bring it
up and I can wake up an audience but um
but that's definitely been something
that for me has been rough and
I feel like as far as like what did I do
and to bring it back you want to
continue to just have your head in the
game like always you can't just give up
or or or walk away but you also want to
have in your pocket all right how can I
how can I um I call it like a pattern
Interruption which pattern Interruption
it's usually a production term it means
that maybe there's a camera angle or a
cut or an edit that all of a sudden
brings your attention back and and what
does that look like is it making a joke
about something or someone or um I I
didn't think that it was anything
significant where it wasn't a matter of
me losing the audience but when I was in
Canada with you the comment that people
made the most afterwards was they loved
a joke that I made about my pants which
I didn't even realize like I had made a
joke about my pants but I was wearing
these um these patent leather leggings
that um they make they totally make
squeaky noises um when either my my legs
rub together or when I walk and I made a
joke about how like I wore my squeaky
pants just for you and um and and
apparently that was something that just
like when you think about Ferris buer
and how he does what's called breaking
the fifth wall where he goes from being
in the movie to like talking to the
audience like sometimes those moments
can either make make it light or or just
prove that you're a human or make
someone laugh or just again just okay
let's bring it let's bring it back I
feel like those are some ways that you
can potentially get yourself out of it
or even get your head back into it of
having a little bit of that that
interaction um and and then again it
always goes back to all right if we lost
them at this point afterwards when
you're done let's figure out why like
what what was it was it that the story
was too long was it that we said
something in a way that we shouldn't
have was it that
like you know your hands were too
distracting or you were walking around
too much but like what was it and is it
that we need to get rid of the story is
it that we need to change the story I
think it's so important to watch game
tape um as I call it like I hate it more
than anything by the way like I hate I
hate watching myself on stage um and
I've also found that um if I watch it
immediately I will find everything
that's wrong if I wait a few months all
of a sudden I'm a lot nicer to myself
interesting so sometimes you have to let
it marinate a little bit but um but I
think you know reviewing the footage is
always going to to help you and again
reminding you that the audience is human
and having some potential like Choose
Your Own Adventure moments in your head
of like where you could go um if you
happen to lose them so talking about
kind of recapturing the audience's
attention I mean you just mentioned
there humor is a a great way of doing
that like inject ing something to get
them laughing some sort of joke that
might be the memorable thing a couple
other things that come to mind are
things like body language or maybe like
your vocal tone like changing it like
high low that type of thing you're
somebody who kind of uses the full stage
you you move constantly is that
intentional and like as you're building
your speech are you mindful of those two
things of like changes in your voice and
the tone to kind of recapture the
audience's attention as well um for a
better and especially the worst Wade I
feel like I don't even know what happens
with my body when I'm up there um which
so it's funny because I made a video a
while ago that um that got a lot of
views where I talked about like what not
to do with your hands in terms of videos
and in it like when I talk about like
what not to do with your hands it's more
so about like what are you doing either
because you think that it is like you
think that you're again supposed to do
it or you're doing it because you are
nervous um I talk with my hands like if
you're watching this in the video like
I'm using my hands to talk this is the
way that I would talk and in person I'm
not doing this because I'm nervous or
because I don't know what to do with my
hands this is just simply how my mind
and body work together and I mentioned
I'm a performer I'm a dancer so for me
like I am an animated individual and I
think where some people make the mistake
is they fully choreograph every single
move and you know and and point and
thing and and some people can do it and
really well and some people do it and it
feels very inauthentic and and not great
um and so that being said in terms of me
moving all over the stage there are
absolutely moments where I am being as
authentic to myself as I can and and I
still will watch footage back and go huh
you know what I should sit still for
this part of the story or you know what
maybe I'll move for this part of the
story and and there are little things
like I love watching other speakers I
love watching other speakers and I was
once watching uh my friend Seth Madison
where he was actually giving a talk
about body language and where he was
talking about how sometimes you can be
really strategic about the way that you
move about the stage in terms of telling
a story whether it's a before and an
after or uh you know beginning middle
end how you can start in one on one side
for the first part of the story and then
move your way so that it feels more
intentional and graceful in those
moments where you want to move but have
intention so all of that is to say some
of it is thoughtful I wouldn't say
scripted or choreographed some of it is
thoughtful and some of it is my genuine
passion where I I do things with my feet
and hands like sometimes I'll do little
little low kicks because again I'm a
dancer or I'll do like a little snap
moments that I do in real life too um um
and and those are things that some of
them are natural and some of them are
caught and taught we're getting close to
to the end of the conversation Jazelle
there's been so much value already added
I hope so in in a second I'm going to
ask you three questions that I intend on
asking every guest of future keys from
Keynotes uh interviews we'll get there
in a second but before I have one last
question and that has to do with
audience Q&A and where I think that this
is maybe a little bit different than a
speech or something that you kind of
have in mind what you're going to talk
about it's of course that you don't know
the questions that might be coming from
the
audience to make this kind of a two-part
question question number one is that
something you Embrace when you're a
speaker like do you open it up to
audience questions and allow that or
make that part of your presentation and
the second part is how do you deal with
difficult questions where you know
they're they almost stump you for a
moment and you maybe don't know the
answer in that
moment I love it I want to get stumped
and um and not everybody does like not
everybody wants that not everybody feels
comfortable some of the practice that
I've gotten over the years has been from
going live on Instagram it's been from
for a moment there was a hot social
media app called clubhouse right and I
would get to test and trial questions
and all the time I've noticed over time
that there are a lot of questions that I
get over and over and over and I turn
that into content um and and I love the
opportunity to get stumped because no
I'm not going to answer a question that
I don't have the answer to yet and I'm
not afraid to say that you know what I
never really thought about it that way
let me get back to you or you know what
I don't think I have an answer to that
does anybody else um or that that's a
good one I I think I'm gonna need more
than a couple of seconds to think that
one through but the other piece of it
too is that I um you know I don't just
call myself a coach I went through
extensive training you know hours weeks
of of training and trials and and and um
and schooling as well as having
thousands of hours with clients and my
job as a coach is to ask good questions
and so I also love sourcing for
questions from the audience where it's a
matter of seeing how people ask
questions because that's an area that I
even get rusty as a coach so I love
pulling from that um and so personally I
love doing Q&A when it's available to me
and um but I know plenty of speakers who
don't do it or who don't feel
comfortable and who want to get familiar
with their material first and so I would
say never do a Q&A unless you are
confident in your material and um and
confident in your audience but if if you
know for some of my even you know I
represent speakers as well I have some
speakers who they're like I don't want
to go unless there's a Q&A because for
them the keynote is where they're a
little stiff and the Q&A is where they
come come alive and um and it's an
opportunity to to really engage with the
people who ultimately you're doing this
for it's it's some of the best research
that you can do as a speaker in seeing
the questions that they have or don't
have afterwards and whether or not you
want to tweak your presentation as a
result of or maybe you even recognize
wow I thought I needed to be the
advanced level of this but their
questions are so basic I gotta I got to
bring my presentation material down even
further to be able to accommodate
such a good point well as I mentioned
three questions I'm going to ask every
guest of this interview series the first
one is who is your favorite keynote
speaker I have so many and I also love
watching comedians so and I study
speakers all the time so I love watching
Netflix and YouTube um to see speakers
Irwin mcmanis was the pastor at my
church in La he's one of my favorite
speakers who I pulled from also Rachel
Hollis was someone who I saw her and I'd
never seen a woman talk like she did um
she's been kind of out of the spotlight
for a little while but she honestly was
someone who for me bernee Brown also
someone who she just has a different
tone and she's so wonderful Mel Robbins
as well Tony Robbins of course like one
of the greats by far and and I also I
love watching the storytelling of of you
know comedians on Netflix like there's
so many different Netflix specials where
you see different ways that they tell
stories or or break their character or
interact with the crowd that I I think
is so so so brilliant and um and that's
absolutely where I pull in like
inspiration from and I love watching my
peers on the road my mentor Ryan Leak
who I love and adore and Seth Madison
who's who's just wonderful and someone
who's really gone up about this you know
so much more traditionally um those are
people who I I just adore and love and
feel feel so lucky that like oh my gosh
they're my friends now that what it's
wild so cool question number two what is
your most embarrassing speaking
moment I had to think about this one
because I don't embarrass easily I mean
I wear pants that squeak so I I embrace
I embrace the sweat and the insecurity
always but um I do recall I was at Inman
back in January in New York and I was
moderating a panel and I'm known for my
pants like in case you didn't C catch it
the first time I have these patent
leather pants that people love and that
make funny noises um but I also had
these sequin ones that I was so excited
to bring out for Inman like they were
fully sequin sparkly black and I didn't
realize it but when I crossed my legs
they got stuck together so when I got
up I like I couldn't they were stuck in
three different places and I had to stay
on stage and like physically pull the
beads from like all the different areas
of my legs um to get unstuck before I
could walk off but always always laugh
off the the moments but definitely did a
wardrobe change after that one and
luckily packed extra pants love it such
a good answer and final question if you
could speak at any venue in the world
where would it be for me it's less about
venue and more about um Thee the company
in the presence so one speaker who I
fully forgot to mention and shouldn't
have I abs Ely want to and will share
the stage with Brennan brashard he is
someone who I am totally a product of
his coaching and um and witnessing him
as as a coach as a performer as a
speaker as a teacher as a Storyteller
and I I want to be at one of his events
as a speaker and an example and at one
of his events actually in February of
2020 Jaimie Kern Lima who was the CEO of
it cosmetic IC had a billion dooll exit
billion with a B she was sitting in the
front row of one of his events and I
went up to her to take a picture and I
told her wholeheartedly unwaveringly I
cannot wait to share the stage with you
one day and the next day during her
keynote she actually called me out and
she said where's jaelle ardi she told me
that she's gonna share their stage with
me one day and I believe her and so
those are two people who I cannot wait
to at some point and no matter where
they are I know the venue is going to be
amazing I know the audience is going to
be amazing I know we're going to impact
so many people but those are those they
they are they are my venue they they are
that um and and then also I mean Madison
Square Garden I mean hey like look let's
go ahead let's shoot for the stars let's
let's headline it let's sell it out uh I
would I would love to to do that well
considering that this career that you've
started started during the pandemic
which wasn't all so long ago three years
and you've come to this point I have no
doubt that you'll hit those achievements
two wa yeah yeah exactly well thank you
so much Jazelle for being brave enough
to be the first guest on so there it is
episode one of keys from Keynotes I
really hope you enjoyed this content
Jazelle did such an amazing job in this
interview really being vulnerable and
sharing so many good tips that hopefully
some clicked with you and will help you
whether you're a brand new speaker
aspiring for great things or maybe you
just have an upcoming speech and you
wanted to get some tips from someone who
is a pro I think Jazelle provided all of
that if this is your first time if
you're watching this on YouTube and you
haven't seen one of my videos before
consider subscribing my channel is all
about helping make you a better more
impactful communicator and if you're
listening to this on the podcast please
also subscribe because I want to
continue this series and I think that
metric of how much people are resonating
with this content will tell me whether
this is something that is really valued
by the community so thank you so much
for watching or listening to this
episode and I'll see you soon